SOURCE: Course & Specs Megathread
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/OMSCS/comments/1pyef5z/course_specs_megathread_selection_choices/
============================================================

Course & Specs Megathread - Selection, Choices & Registration : r/OMSCS
Detective-Raichu
Course & Specs Megathread - Selection, Choices & Registration
Megathread
📌Specializations & Courses Megathread - Selection & Registration

Welcome to the Specialization & Course Megathread for OMSCS!

Now that you've {just been accepted / been here for a bit / been here for awhile}*, this thread is designed to help you navigate the various specializations offered and assist with selecting the right courses for your academic and career goals. (* delete as appropriate)

Please read through the information provided below before posting your questions.

📚 Available Specializations

Machine Learning

Interactive Intelligence

Computing Systems

Computer Graphics

Computational Perception and Robotics

Human-Computer Interaction

Courses that are not linked in the official website are not offered to OMSCS students.

📝 Course Selection Guide

A cheat code is to check out the student-run website at www.omscs.rocks.

It details you the capacity of each course in each semester.

It details you if the course capacity has been max'ed out before.

Understand each of the Specialization Requirements

All courses must be graded for it to be considered part of your degree fulfilment.

Cores are mandatory courses for your specialization. They cannot be avoided.

Electives are choices within your specialisations that allows you to find your specialities and domains that make you a subject expert matter.

Free Electives are choices in which you can freely roam around. However, in order to protect the integrity of this Computer Science degree, only a max. of 2 non CS/CSE courses can be used as your graduation requirements (read the Orientation Doc to confirm). This is a relaxation of the rule enforced by DegreeWorks so your advisors will need to manually override them.

Course prerequisites are not enforced in OMSCS for registration except for SDCC (CS 6211).

Semester planning is crucial for you to balance core and elective courses. This is to prevent you from getting senioritis. Yes, this is a proper English term.

Be aware of the maximum loads per semester.

You are generally not allowed to take 2 courses in Spring & Fall and 1 course in Summer.

Exceptions (not a guarantee!) are only given when you've completed 4 courses and GPA > 3.0.

Be aware of the maximum candidature time (6 years - in the Orientation Document).

Some courses are not offered in Summer, some even have a weird Spring/Fall alternations.

Generally, these information is available at www.omscs.rocks.

Keep the above pointers in mind as you plan your courses. You wouldn't want to look like a fool when you list them out.

Selection Template

We have decided a table template would be hard to implement, so a template in point form would suffice.

* FA25 - CS 6035 Introduction to Information Security
* SP26 - CS 6750 Human-Computer Interaction
* SU26 - Taking a Summer Break
* (...)
* SU29 - CS 8803 O15 Introduction to Computer Law
* FA29 - CS 6515 Introduction to Graduate Algorithms

What about Seminars?

In the eyes of the advisors and associates, seminars are not defined as courses, and are considered to be extra-curricular.

They are not graded and thus not part of the graduation requirements for the degree.

They are either meant purely for enrichment, entertainment, or for guided preparation towards your degree.

They are meant to be accessible, and therefore attract only a fee of 1 credit hour.

👥 Course Registration Process

Instructions and Detailed Timelines are found in your emails and Orientation Document.

Keep a lookout for them.

Registration Link - https://oscar.gatech.edu/

Academic Calendar - https://registrar.gatech.edu/calendar/

Registration Phases and Time Tickets

Phase 1 is reserved exclusively for returning (non-new) students. Time tickets are evenly distributed over 10 working days (2 weeks), according to the number of courses completed.

Exceptions are given for War Veterans, ROTC officers and students who are accommodated on disability services. If you believe you fall on either one of these categories please approach your advisors privately.

For Fall semesters, Phase 1 for OMSCS students are conducted away from the traditional timeslots. This is in view of our large candidature and also to allow for the number of courses completed to be updated to ensure fairness amongst peers.

Phase 2 includes newly-matriculated students. The time ticket should be similar for all newly-matriculated students, or maybe with (at most) an hour difference to anticipate for the huge volume of students signing up.

Because OMSCS does not admit students in the Summer, Summer registration is conducted in one single phase.

🌍 International Payments

We suggest that you start making payments one week prior to the deadline if possible.

The Registrar strongly encourages you to use Transfermate, Flywire or CIBC. However, in lieu of the convenience given, the hidden foreign exchange fees might be too much for people to bear. Check out the various payment options at www.omscs.rocks where you might be able to lower down these fees.

OpenAI
Don’t limit your flow. Move your build to Codex and pick up where you left off. Designed to be token efficient.
chatgpt.com
slouchingbethlehem

For the Robotics specialization, if you take both ML and AI, can one of them be used as an elective (not free elective)?

NowhyKnot

Do you get a time ticket or any info about registration ? I am admitted for Fall 2026 and haven't gotten any emails/communication. On the time-tickets page, I see for 0-2 credit students we register 23-Jun.

1: Do we get emails about registration beforehand or have to do something on our end by chekcing the time ticket website?

2: I haven't paid yet, when does that occur? No emails about it. My status page saids "Ready to Enroll: Checklist Complete" but I don't have access to any student email yet

etlx

There are phase 1 and phase 2 for registration. Typically new atudents only get to register in phase 2, which is much closer to the first week of the semester.

Yes they email you all the info beforehand.

The tuition payment deadline is around the 2nd week of the semester.

JohnQuincyKerbal

I am going into the Fall 2026 semester with 6 completed credit hours (3 from Fall 25 and 3 from Spring 26). I'm not enrolled in any summer courses.

According to the published time ticket schedule I thought my ticket window would open Thurs 18-Jun 10:00am.

However, when I check in the "Prepare for Registration" module in OSCAR, it is reporting

"Time tickets do not allow registration at this time.

 Please register within these times:

06/17/2026 10:00 AM - 07/02/2026 11:59 PM"

Am I misreading the published schedule or is it possible to be issued a time ticket window earlier than what is posted on the schedule? I'm trying to get into GA this Fall so I think I need to be on top of registering ASAP

etlx

Something sinilar happened to me too previously. Based on my experience, Oscar is more accurate. (Coincidentally, I took GA as my 3rd class too. Good luck !)

AssumptionHuge2367

Hi I am about to register for my second semester within OMSCS, how fast does Computer Networks fill up? My time ticket is for the 22nd closer toward the end of the registration so wanted to know if the course usually fills up fast

etlx

CN has a plenty of capacity. You will be fine. I took CN in my first semester.

Secure Endpoints? Check the Application Allowlists
Download
airlockdigital.com
BulkyAd9029

Hi, I am admitted to the Fall 2026 and will be starting my OMSCS soon. I work full-time as a software engineer, and the month of September is a bit heavy workload-wise for me. Also, I will have to travel for a week or two in the middle of November. I am planning to take two courses to kick start, the first one being CS6300 Software Development Process, and for the second one, I am thinking of enrolling for CS6603 AI, Ethics and Society.
Is this practical?
I can manage September and can give 1-2 hours a day to study each day, and more over the weekend if I start planning from now.
I wanted to ask when these two courses will conclude in November? I will help me plan my travel. Also, if there are courses that are "front-loaded" so that I can cover most of the syllabi before the deadline in November. If there are, then I will choose the subject accordingly.
TIA!

etlx

6300+6603 is a reasonable combo as they are both lightweight courses

slouchingbethlehem

Which courses benefit most from getting a few weeks’ head start on readings and lectures?

etlx

cs7643 and isye6414

slouchingbethlehem

I'm interested in taking HPCA, HPC, and GIOS, but I can only take 2 of the 3. Which 2 would be best to take?

etlx

GIOS and HPC

GreenSpaceDorito2

Should I take ML or AI as my final course in the program this Fall?

I have kind of procrastinated on finishing the program but am almost here and I definitely put off doing one of these 2. I believe I need at least a B to graduate. Worth noting that I work a high workload job that consistently has me at 50-60 hours per week.

etlx

ML

GreenSpaceDorito2

Why do you say?

Supercharge your team’s productivity and potential with ServiceNow AI Agents.
servicenow.com
jmorrrr

If I drop a class today that I already settled my bursar balance for will they credit me for the class?

etlx

there is a refund process. not sure if you can keep it as credit till next semester.

vy-che

I dont know if any chance I can take one of both CS6603 or CS7650 this Summer. The Free for all registration slots went so fast, I tried to refresh but no luck. As the email said, the registration will close at 11:59 Pm ET 5/22. I want to ask any experience last minute to see if it has the chance to sign up.

sthcomforting
NLP or RAIT this summer for AI/ML focus and usefulness of course?

I've seen a lot of discourse about how the new course material for NLP (Meta AI lectures) is not great. I also saw a concerning post from the RAIT professor about how it might be more difficult due to the condensed timeline. I also saw that for summer, NLP exams are now only 30%.

If my goal is to really learn something useful and interesting in the fields of ML/AI (not a SWE background but considering applying it to some of the non-tech engineering work I do), which would be a better course to take? How might the courseloads differ? Thanks!

etlx

It really depends. If you are gonna work in self driving car space, for example, then RAIT. If you are gonna work in LLM agent training, then NLP. So on.

DaColdest_Eva

Question about 3rd party billing and waitlisting courses:

My employer pays for my tuition which is awesome, but the deadline for submitting the voucher with course info is due like 2 weeks prior to the regular deadline. It’s due prior to the semester actually starting.
I’ve been waitlisted for a summer course I didn’t think I was actually going to get, but a spot has opened up for me, so I’d like to drop my current course and add that one.
Is this allowed for students with 3rd party payment? I’d have to submit a new voucher for the new course. It is past the deadline now, but the only changing information is the course. The tuition and dates are the same.

WarmAd911

wow all of the comments for NLP worked. The exams are back to 15% weights (at least for the summer)

Nard95

I started OMSCS this spring and took IIS, where I finished with a A 105% and completed every project within a couple days of release.

I currently work full time as a software engineer at a pretty relaxed defense contractor job and have about 4 years of experience. At the same time, I’m planning to spend time prepping and interviewing for new roles going forward.

I’m comfortable with Python and somewhat familiar with Java, although I haven’t really used it since undergrad. I also graduated from a T10 CS program with around a 3.7 GPA and took a networking course during undergrad as well.

Given all that, does taking two courses this summer sound manageable, or would it be smarter to stick to one for my first summer semester?
